# Team Agreement

## 401 JS Final Project Team: Chris Lopez, Stacy Yu, Ezgi Coban, Andra Steele, Ethan Luxton, Vida Powell

## Cooperation Plan

### 1. What are the key strengths of each person on the team?
* Ethan: Frontend (React), CSS, Backend
* Chris: AWS (strong interest in expanding skills), Backend
* Stacy: Backend & UI
* Andra: Organization, Backend logic, Communication, solutions oriented
* Ezgi: Backend logic, UI, Solutions Oriented, debugging, growth mindset
* Vida: Visualizations/Diagrams, Communications

### 2. How can you best utilize these strengths in the execution of your project?

* Each team member will be afforded the opportunity to excel in areas in which they are comfortable working and expand upon those areas they seek to acquire additional skill and facility. Teams will be built with an eye on pairing individuals according to strength and interest.

### 3. In which professional competencies do you each want to develop greater strength?

* Ethan: Logic development for game mechanics, outside libraries, different languages.
* Chris: UI, React hooks & Redux, Debugging, Logical thinking, Concise Communication, Tests.
* Stacy: More practice with React Hooks & Redux, logical thinking
* Andra: UI, logical thinking, teaching/explaining concepts, incremental delivery, innovation mindset
* Ezgi: planning/organization, clearly define tasks, articulate ideas clearly
* Vida: code implementation (React Hooks, Algorithm Fluency), syntax improvements

### 4. Knowing that every person in your team needs to understand all aspects of the project, how do you plan to approach the day-to-day work?

* Daily check-ins and end of day standups where we share where we are, what we plan on doing the following day/session; also employment of a project management board (Trello). Disbursement of tasks that are broken up and assigned, i.e. bugs, features, major issues. “Make it hard for yourselves” - whiteboarding skills, clear algorithms, clear paths forward. 

## Conflict

### 1. What will be your group’s process to resolve conflict, when it arises?

* Leveled approach:  1-1 discussion, cross team/group discussion during stand-up if relevant, Reach out to instructors if/when we become stagnant, and reach out to Sara and/or David if nuclear events happen.

### 2. What will your team do if one person is taking over the project and not letting the other members contribute?

* Communication, communication, communication! Call them out/let them know with patience and reasonability - leveled approach (1-1 messaging, sub-group, team, nuclear). Silence is toxic!

### 3. How will you approach each other and the challenges of the project knowing that it is impossible for all members to be at the exact same place in understanding and skill level?

* Rolling team membership/assignments, acknowledgement of proficiencies and skill expansion goals. Open lines of communication. We shall employ pair programming practices.

### 4. How will you raise concerns to members who are not adequately contributing?
* Communication communication communication! Pair programming will also hopefully avoid this type of situation from arising. Should it arise anyway, call them out/let them know with patience and reasonability - leveled approach (1-1 messaging, sub-group, team, nuclear). Silence is toxic! Check-in with team members.

### 5. How and when will you escalate the conflict if your resolution attempts are unsuccessful?
* Nuclear option for external mediation without much delay (wasted day): David/Sara. 15 minute rule. If a problem persists, check in with other team members for help, if it is still a problem then SOS (David and Sara).

## Communication Plan

### 1. What hours will you be available to communicate?

* Synchronous Coding/Problem Solving: pre-established lab hours
* Asynchronous:  class slack messages welcome all day, responses as folks are able

### 2. What platforms will you use to communicate (ie. Slack, phone …)?

* Class slack channel

### 3. How often will you take breaks?

* Every hour or as-needed

### 4. What is your plan if you start to fall behind?

* We will re-group and reconsider the MVP and discuss as a group to adjust the scope of the project. Create a timeline that will let us know if we are on schedule or not. Define what it means to “fall behind” on each task.

### 5. How will you communicate after hours and on the weekend?

* Asynchronous:  class slack messages welcome all day, responses as folks are able.
* Just an FYI - Vida is on the East Coast and more reachable before class than after. 

### 6. What is your strategy for ensuring everyone’s voice is heard?

* We will ensure that ALL ideas are properly and attentively heard before proceeding on course of action. Ideas can be presented at any check-in or stand-up.

### 7. Templated language in group meets: Two questions where response is REQUIRED: 
1. Ask did anyone encounter any problems since last meet? 
2. Does anyone have any new ideas?

* Stand-down question at end of meeting: “You in the back, do you have a question?!” 

### 8. How will you ensure that you are creating a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up?
* This prep session has given us additional opportunities to set expectations and we are comfortable in communicating with each other. We shall endeavor to self-regulate. Giving sincere compliments helps establish a safe environment.

* Vida volunteers: If anyone is uncomfortable asking anything slack me directly.
* Stacy volunteers: To carry issues related to Vida.

## Work Plan

### 1. How you will identify tasks, assign tasks, know when they are complete, and manage work in general?

* We will determine features through group consensus, deconstruct those features into tasks onto a project management board and utilize project management tool(s) to assign tasks with attention to skills and skill expansion interests. Assignments to be made during group meetings. 

### 2. What project management tool will be used?
* Figma
* Git Process


### 3. What components of your project will live on GitHub?
* All documentation (README, whiteboards, diagrams), backend logic, frontend logic, tests and workflows. At this point we’re thinking everything will live on GitHub except for Figma. 

### 4. How will you share the repository with your teammates?
* We will create a team organization and invite all members to it.

### 5. What is your Git flow?

* Feature branches will push to dev branch and dev branch will push to main branch. We anticipate not more than two or three pushes to main. Run all merging and tests within Github/CLI to ensure code is consistently and accurately merged. If merge conflicts arise, solve them locally.
* Noteworthy: add node_modules to .gitignore (config should already have this)!

### 6. Will you be using a PR review workflow? If so, consider:
* Yes.
    #### How many people must review a PR?
    * We will employ two team-member review on all PRs to main and one team-member review to all PRs to dev. Code cannot be merged unless it is reviewed.

    #### Who merges PRs?
    * Second reviewer.

    #### How often will you merge?
    * At the end of each day local code should be pushed to feature branches and at the end of each feature there will be a push to dev branch.  

    #### How will you communicate that it’s time to merge?
    * Coordination at the stand-up.
